---
layout:             post
title:              "A Perspective on a Crazy Year"

description:        "Just a little ranting about calendar year 2020. With just a month left to go, I am taking stock of the successes and failures of the year. I had some proud moments this year, for a variety of reasons I'll talk about. On the other hand, I did not accomplish all of the things I had hoped to, for some of the same reasons. All-in-all, it seems to have been a mixed blessing, with plenty of room for improvement."
keywords:           personal
tags:               [Personal]

specifics:
    images:         "2020/perspective-on-a-crazy-year"

published:          true
---

Here in the USA, Thanksgiving is in just two days.

There are a lot of things I am thankful for this year. My work continues to be interesting and challenging. My wife, Linsi, continues to wisely invest in herself. Our new dog Luna (_whom Linsi and I [rescued](https://foothillsanimalshelter.org/) in April at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic_) is always adding excitement to our lives, whether through mischief or just by being adorable. While neither Linsi nor I achieved all of our personal goals for the year, my take is that **_some_** leeway needs to be given for the fact that life was turned upside-down fairly early on in 2020. As for the details...

I am particularly happy with the extra emphasis I put on reading more books. Linsi helped a friend of ours start a book club in late June, and she was hoping I would be part of it so as to build up the club roster. One thing led to another and now I'm finishing up a Python script to visualize my reading pace, I have a catalog of everything I have read since the beginning of the year, and I am planning on doing a "year end" retrospective on the books I completed. I had felt that my creative juices were drying up over the course of the past few years _(graduate school and startup time commitments being the primary culprits)_ without being adequately refreshed, so I felt that pouring my time and attention into reading and reflection was the right thing for my mental well-being, and as a result of my motivation I should be able to get some cool tools out of this project. An unexpected success!

My website finally got the makeover it has needed since this iteration was first revealed back in late 2017. I have some ideas floating in my head for other additions and modifications I would love to make in the near future (_a dashboard for content I generate in OnShape, for example_), but the site is finally looking and feeling like I always wanted it to. Producing content for it continues to be tough...I routinely wave off my own ideas for a new blog post if I feel that it will not **"add anything of value."** Unfortunately, I also recognize that I would be better at generating valuable content if I merely _practiced_ the act of writing more. Perhaps this post is sowing the latter to reap more of the former? I should make a note to do more casual writing into 2021 and beyond, regardless if its for this blog or not.

One of the things that made me deeply unhappy this year was the **"fear of missing out"** I got from looking at other things people did with their own pandemic-complimentary free time. While I think that primal fear is particularly present in the modern human psyche, the extra time I spent this year (_and I suspect other people also spent_) living vicariously through others caused that anxiety to erupt to the surface. Without much else to do during downtime, looking through the metaphorical "store windows" at yet-another-cool-thing-I-really-should-have-gotten-around-to-doing felt far more depressive than it usually does. The most insidious part is this seemed to be more of a _steady_ and _erosive_ process instead of an _impulsive_ and _catastrophic_ one, so by the time I knew what I was doing to myself, the mental damage had already been done.

A notable exception to that is the case made by one of my closest friends, [Paul Musgrave](https://www.psmusgrave.com/). I **_absolutely_** feel like he has done more interesting things in software and hardware throughout this past year, and yet all I feel is pride when I look through his work. I suspect the social connection I have with him morphed my anxiety that I _missed an opportunity to do something_ into _excitement for the opportunity to collaborate on something even more compelling._ I should make a note to reach out to some other people and collaborate on more technical, creative, or other endeavors, and invite others to participate in more projects that are meaningful to me. I am not naturally keen at that kind of social connecting (_my dad is an engineer AND ALSO a natural connector, so I know what that SHOULD look like_), but it seems to be an area where I could stand to put in a bit more effort from here on out.

I think I need to be less risk-averse. I _know_ that I have a pretty good sense of what is risky and what is not, but I ALWAYS seem to err on the side of caution, even if the potential downsides are minimal or nonexistent. Good example? Not spending time fleshing out my ideas for an automation-focused startup company focused on a particular market, as I can easily justify not spending any effort on it as "being prudent with my time." Ugh. What's the quote? **_"You miss 100% of the shots you don't take?"_** [The Great One](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayne_Gretzky) may know a thing or two about success. I am not sure I even particuarly care about that startup idea; it is the broader implication that I will miss something that an otherwise bright and competent person would be able to take advantage of.

There's certainly more I want to reflect on, but my thoughts on those topics are not in what could be called a stable orbit. Hopefully the next time I do one of these perspective posts, I can talk at length about some other things which are on my mind.
